[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: 2017 is the present,
but soon, no longer, for 2018
is upon us.
SURMA: The future.
JAKE: The future-- well,
soon it will be the present.
That's the weird
thing about time
is it keeps just coming at you.
But I wanted to think about
some of the things that
are going to be landing
on the web in 2018.
And I wanted to try and
describe one of them to you
through you asking
questions in two minutes.
I want to talk about
the FetchObserver.
SURMA: The FetchObserver?
Does it have to do
with actual fetch?
JAKE: Yes, it does.
SURMA: Does it observe fetches?
SURMA: How?
JAKE: Magic.
[LAUGHTER]
Through web specs that
we have yet to write,
which is part of--
right now, it's just
an API kind of sketch
of what this will look like.
SURMA: OK.
But which problem does it solve?
JAKE: The problem of, I
want to observe fetches.
How can I do that?
SURMA: What exactly do
you want to observe?
Because you can usually
already know when it's done.
Right?
JAKE: Right, so it's
mostly about all
of the stuff that
happens in between.
SURMA: OK.
What happens in between?
JAKE: Well, things like it's
connecting to the server.
It's connected.
It's waiting for headers.
It has headers.
And then things like--
well, there'll be upload
progress, download progress.
SURMA: Oh, that's good.
JAKE: And those two things can
happen at the same time, which
I didn't know.
You can be uploading
while you're downloading.
This will give you that
piece of information.
And it will be like
a separate object,
so you can pass that to
another piece of code
so they can observe the
fetch without having
any control over it.
SURMA: So could I--
so I do a fetch.
I'm a service worker.
Like, let's say a download for
a bigger file, a bigger asset.
Can I take out the observer,
pass it to the main thread,
and have a UI update?
That's one of the things that
probably are going to happen.
You want to download
something in the service
worker in the
background, but have a UI
that updates in real time
and with the progress?
JAKE: That's exciting.
That will probably
be V2, but it might
be V2 that actually happens
because that's a good use case.
But you will also, if you're
sending that to the page,
then you'll definitely
be able to get it
from the FetchObserver
from the page side.
And it's also where
we can start adding
extra bits of observation,
such as observing push,
like H2 push.
SURMA: Oh, that's
interesting because,
so far, you don't know
when something gets pushed.
JAKE: Nope.
So the idea is we could
have, on this FetchObserver,
an event that says,
you've been given this.
Do you want it?
And you'll have a way to sort
of consume it and bring that
through the network
into a promise.
SURMA: I'm really
excited about that.
JAKE: Cool.
[CHRISTMAS MUSIC ALARM PLAYING]
SURMA: The Import function.
JAKE: OK, it's a function?
SURMA: Well, technically, no.
But that's the difference--
JAKE: What?
You've already lied to me in
one of the words you just said.
SURMA: I know.